that then we interrogated him and then after that
by by a policy of the American government we called
in a chopper because we were sitting out in the
middle of nowhere we called in a chopper and sent
him back for higher up interrogation and that's
where actually physically they more did the
interrogation back there to higher headquarters
and found out that he was more that that's what he
was he was a he was sent in to infiltrate get
dimensions of the camp so that when he left there
that later on if we got hit at night and stuff like
this that they would have had all the dimensions so
they would know how to shoot their mortars in and
hit our bunkers and things like this which would
have really been real bad for us. While you were
there, did any of your good friends lose their
lives? Yes, in the same camp we had this guy, a
medic. We have, normally in the Mike Force, when
they go out in Ranger outfits, when they went out
when we were in Spaceship Forces, there was
usually only two Americans go out, and they were
out on a search with the Mike Force, and they got
ambushed, and he was killed with a .50 caliber
machine gun bullets. He tried to rush it to save
everybody else. It was a real bad fall fright, and
he just got up and tried to rushed a machine gun and
he didn't make it. How did y'all react to such
events? Were y'all getting used to losing
friends? Well, he was closer to most of the Special
Forces guy because we had our own people there. I
physically knew the guy and as all death and stuff
you feel it's the same way even if he's being killed
when you're out in combat and you see them being
killed. It is no different, really. Somebody
being shot or killed is the same, even though he was
a Vietnamese or the Americans. You feel bad,
but... If you look at it in a war, that's some of the
things it's just a risk you take when you're in a
fight. So when you witnessed such things, you
never questioned the American government reason
for being there? For example, when you lost your
friends or the people you knew, did you ever say, is
this all worth it? I really never thought we were
there or the American people was not, even because
we were there, sent there, to support the people so
I had no aggravation against if a friend of mine got
killed or things like this it just yes I felt bad but
uh this was part of his job as a military he accepted
that responsibility when he joined the army and
that's the reason why he he was trying to save lives
I guess when he got killed and these were things
that you do under those type of situations and uh
death is death and uh It's bad, but you have to learn
to accept it when you're in those type of
situations and seeing people killed around you.
Fortunately, I never seen as much of it as these
guys did because I always stayed in the camps
because all we did was build a special camp because
we were just engineers, combat engineers. We only
fought as combat engineers or fight as infantry
upon being attacked. and things like this. Yes,
I've seen people killed, and I've seen people
brought in killed. Who
do you blame for America's,
as you have said that you don't believe that
America lost in Vietnam, who do you blame for
America's pulling out of Vietnam? I think the
public, the non-military people,
your mothers, your fathers, different things
like this. And I think there was a lot of your
governors and senators and different things like
this from different states and stuff like this
that did not support Vietnam, which they talked
against it. They didn't want to see the American
troops there and things. So once it became enough
of them could push it through, then they actually
forced us to come out of Vietnam, I think,
politically because of the senators, governors,
mothers and fathers. The people just did not want
us there no longer because we were not
accomplishing anything. And I think the American
people, even the American forces, looked at it
that way, too, because our hands were tied in a lot
of situations.
You could not cross the Hanoi or go across the
Cambodian border or something like this or things
like this when that was where they were always
heading back to when you were chasing them or doing
things like this or fighting them. So do you think
it was alright for Richard Nixon to invade
Cambodia? Do you think that was a proper action? We
had gone and invaded a neutral country. We were
just expanding the war I think then because if we
kept expanding it there we were just going to
prolong the war. So... And plus that was still
spreading, like I was saying before, I think,
during the talk, that the war is still going on over
there in Cambodia because of the refugees and
stuff like this. There are other communists that
we're trying to infiltrate in certain areas of
Cambodia, and there's just a minute of
resistance, real resistance against the forces
that are there. We support it a little bit, but we
don't support it as much as we do down in Honduras
right now. in Nicaragua or something like that.
We're supporting the Contras a lot more in
fighting down there than we are in Cambodia. We
probably support those people, but not as an
all-out public thing. Do you see a similarity
between Nicaragua and Vietnam? A lot of people say
that Nicaragua will be... There's a possibility,
yes. There could be a possibility that right now
we've had American troops lose their lives down
there. Already there's been some American people
shot in helicopters and things like this in their
support. Those are how Vietnam started. Like I was
saying at the first of the talk, that when we
entered Vietnam, we had advisories there. What we
have in Nicaragua and things right now are
advisories. We also have engineer units down
there building roads and different things like
this. It's silhouatic. This is the way Vietnam
started. And it all depends on really the
government, what they want to do about supporting
those people, of sending American forces in that
area. If they do, then it could end up being the same
thing as Vietnam. So if you were an advisor to
President George Bush, would you advise him
against getting involved in Nicaragua or
supporting the Contras?
If I was looking at it on a military aspect,
and having to go back into combat and fight for a
country
of that nature, that if our country's President
Bush, as the Commander-in-Chief of the U.S.
Forces, and he fully believed that if we sent
American forces down there, that later on in the
years, because of us being there, that people
would be free and not under a dictator or communist
leadership, which would be part of our duty as one
of the high forces NATO or anything of the
government to support our comrades in arms if it
was became necessary but it would only be the
decision of probably the president and the public
because I think the public's going to be more
involved in this type of war because I think the
people are looking at it if we do send troops there
it's going to end up being like another Vietnam and
they're they're not wanting that so they're
they're really holding off and not wanting to do it
I think. So we're not, it's gonna, we're gonna send
advisories, we're gonna support them, and
probably stay out of it as much as we can unless it,
unless Russia or Cuba or, it really becomes bigger
than what it is right now before we probably send
troops down there, I think. If somebody would
probably, Russia would end up sending troops
there. or something like that, then we might be
more involved of getting involved like we did in
Cuba. When Russia put missiles in Cuba, we got
involved.
What role do you think did media have in Vietnam? Do
you think that Walter Cronkite had questioned
America's involvement? They were saying that,
how can we save a country by destroying it? A lot of
media people were saying this. And a lot of people
blame media for losing the war. They said that they
didn't have faith in the American ability to carry
on. And a lot of people got discouraged because I
think this was true, the media played a big part in
getting us out of Vietnam because of what they
published in their media and sending it back here
to the Americans that lived in the United States or
back here, that this did not sit well with the
Americans. That's the reason why more so the
public, because of the press, that we ended up
being pulled out of Vietnam because the press,
well the press helped. and, or the media. So do you
think it was right for them to help? It's not that I
don't think they helped. I think they just was
doing, feeling they were doing their job just as
well as we were doing our job as government, being
sent there from the government as a fighting force
to support the Vietnamese government. They were
there doing a job, and they felt that's what they
do. So I guess...
What do you think are the lessons that United
States can learn from Vietnam?
How can we avoid another Vietnam? Are there any
words of wisdom you can say? Not really. I guess the
only thing would be just like to say if I...
It all depends on how well they want to let the
American forces after... They sent us there to let
the American people with the American military do
their job. I think that if you let the generals in
the military do their job instead of being
political about it, like they said when
MacArthur, because MacArthur got fired, because
MacArthur was wanting to go in and go all through
Korea. China. and probably if Truman would not
have stood in his way and he would have gave to
MacArthur's thing, our world might have been a
little bit different in Korea or different things
like this because we were already at war. If you're
going to accomplish something, I guess you could
be like Genghis Khan, just keep going. And it might
have changed the world, but you never know. We
could still be maybe even fighting the war yet. So
you think American people should just place their
faith in the hands of their commander-in-chief
and the army? That's why we elected him there in the
forces or into the government. if you don't like
what he's doing in four years you just re-elect
somebody else that you think but he could be the
same way he could still be putting you or our
american forces in anything it all depends it all
depends on what really i think goes on in the
government and since we're going down here at the
low thing and only listen to the media that they
know more than what the media does sometimes
because they've got our intelligence and things
like this that that there could be really a need,
and if they say, okay, we've got to send forces to
that area to accomplish a mission to keep the
people free there, then that would be the decision
of the government, which for the president to do
it, he still has to have the Senate approve it and
things like this. So it's hard for him to do things
like that right now, I think, because of the
political situation we had in Nam.
What do you believe should be the course of our
foreign policy? For example, do you believe that
it is the duty of America to fight communism in the
world? Or do you think we should try to live side by
side with the communist countries? I think we're
learning to accept and live with the communist
countries as we're going, just like Nixon, or not
Nixon, but Bush and Gorbachev are negotiating
about nuclear missiles and things like this. It's
not that we're living side by side, but we're
negotiating for both our futures because of the
nuclear weapons that we're supposed to be
disarming. And these are supposed to be monitored
real closely to make sure that Russia is doing it.
And a lot of times, we may do something, but Russia
don't do it if you don't watch them. So these type of
things will probably, through the government,
will just have to be closely monitored to live side
by side with them. We're accepting them now.
People, when they talk about communism, do they
really know what communism is? It's a word to them.
The only way I think they really would know
communism would be go to Russia and live as a
Russian under their dictatorship of communism.
It'd be the same as the Russians coming here. They
like to come here and live because we have a lot of
communism living in our country right now
because they want they like the American freedom
but they still for their own government and their
own keeping their own instead of becoming
American citizens they still are Russians or
whatever nationality that they are here under
communism are still claiming that they're
communism but they're living in America If that's
the case, why not for them to go back to Russia and
let the people explain to them why am I living in
America to get away from communism? To me, it's all
he's doing. He's getting away from communism even
though in his own mind he's away from communism.
He's only supporting his government or his
country in his mind, but living a good life here in
America because everybody likes to come to
America, even the Vietnamese and... Even I think
in any war that we fought, the American people,
when you were in France and Poland, any place where
we were at, the American GIs, the Polish and the
French and everything, the women and the kids and
everybody wanted to come to America. They loved to
come to America because it was a land of plenty. And
the Russia comes here and lives He's not under
communism as long as he's living here. We just know
that he's here because he is transferred from
government to government or he's got diplomatic
immunity or whatever. And he just lives here. To
me, we're living beside communism. It's just that
we're accepting it. Harry Truman had once said
that it must be the policy of the United States to
resist communism and stop communism and help any
free people who are trying to resist communism.
And one of the reasons our government said we went
into Vietnam was that Truman doctrine that we were
trying to help free people. I think that's the
reason why we got involved in Vietnam War. I think
if we get involved in Honduras or any other... type
of war or communism type situation where we're in
his theory of why we should fight communism that
would be the reason that there that we would get
involved because that is one of our American as you
were saying in Truman's doctrine that he would
like to support the American people would
demolish communism if they could and support
anybody that asked our help to keep becoming
communism. So do you think we should still follow
that principle? I think we should. I don't think,
if we're going to keep our freedom of speech and
everything like this, because if you take
probably communism, I think some of your freedom
of speech and doing things that we do now would
be... uh... dominated we would not have our bill of
rights if we probably come under uh... communism
where we where if we come under communism i think
the bill of rights and our freedom of speech and
different things like this might be a little more
hindrance and your way of life would be a little bit
more hindrance in some ways for what they do in in
probably communism way of doctrine it's probably
fairly good because everybody's equal to Same.
The government gives them everything, and it's
divided the country. It's supposed to be divided
to eagerly be entered, but the government's still
got control. Where the American people, as we do at
the Bill of Rights, we have the freedom of speech.
If we own something, it is ours. It's not the
government's. We're in probably a communism
country. Very few people own a lot of stuff. It
belongs to the government or something. So you
believe that the people who want to endorse
communism should be left alone, but the people who
ask for America's help for freedom should be
helped by the United States. But for example, the
Soviet Union, after the Tsarist regime wanted
communism, the people in them, and the other
countries of Eastern Europe who have endorsed
communism, it must not be the policy of the United
States to free those countries, right? If that's
what they want, there's nothing for the US
government to do about it if the country wants to
endorse communism. If the government does not
want to abolish
and accept communism, then the United States has
nothing to do about going in and stopping the
government if the country wants to become
communism, it just becomes communism. But if they
would ask our help to stop communism or something
like this, it might be our duty to come in. It all
depends on the situation. Really, is it that
important of us being there to stop communism
before we get involved, just like we do in Honduras
or Nicaragua? Right now, I don't think it's worth
it to get down and be involved unless Russia or the
Cubans would really come up and put a big force or
something in there where they would escalate more
of the war down there than what it is right now. If
Russia would actually send big troops like they
did in Afghanistan to there, or Cuba and stuff
would send a lot of things there and start putting
missiles or things like this, this would be a
hindrance to us for them to be there because of the
situation of them being able to do their...
different things within that area, it'd be a
highly military intelligence for them to,
especially if they're communists, to find out
about what we're doing. They could put radar or all
depends on what they put up, but they could be doing
stuff here, which would affect our country. So if
it's going to affect our country, then we do not
need it there.
Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Paul. I really
appreciate this. Thank you. That's okay.